= dm-devise

dm-devise lets you use devise (http://github.com/plataformatec/devise) with
DataMapper.

dm-devise is intended for use with Rails 3 and devise >= 1.1. It may work with
earlier versions, but it's not been tested (if you try, please let Jared Morgan
(http://github.com/jm81) know how it goes.)

This README only covers dm-devise specifics. Make sure to read the devise
README http://github.com/plataformatec/devise/blob/master/README.rdoc

Last tested against devise master: 2012-02-13, commit aa36719bd95971d49e27e2091ad08af067355cce
Last tested against devise release 2.0.1, 1.5.3

== Installation

Add dm-devise and dm gems to your Gemfile. The following gems are required:

  gem 'dm-core',           '~> 1.2.0'
  gem 'dm-sqlite-adapter', '~> 1.2.0' # or your preferred adapter
  gem 'dm-serializer',     '~> 1.2.0'
  gem 'dm-timestamps',     '~> 1.2.0'
  gem 'dm-rails',          '~> 1.2.0'
  gem 'dm-validations',    '~> 1.2.0' # Do not include if using data_mapper_active_model
  gem 'dm-devise',         '~> 2.0.1'

If you're using Active Model validations, do not include dm-validations in your
Gemfile.

dm-devise works with versions of DataMapper gems >= 1.0.2 on the 1.0 branch,
>= 1.1.0.rc3 on the 1.1 branch and 1.2.0.

Run the generator:

  rails generate data_mapper:devise_install

The generator will install an initializer which describes ALL Devise's
configuration options and you MUST take a look at it. See Config section below
for three config options that have particular importance to dm-devise.

Add Devise to any of your models using the generator:

  rails generate data_mapper:devise MODEL

Read the README for devise at http://github.com/plataformatec/devise/blob/master/README.rdoc

== Using raise_on_save_failure

The default controllers provided by devise will not work correctly if
raise_on_save_failure is set to true for the devise model. You can customize
the controllers (See the devise README for details), but I don't know what
customizations in particular to recommend. See https://github.com/jm81/dm-devise/issues/14
for discussion.

== Config Options

See the generated initializer for all the config options, but dm-devise users
should be particularly aware of these three:

=== data_mapper_validation_lib

dm-devise adds some compatibility methods for either dm-validations or
Active Model validations. By default, it determines what to load based on
which library is found (giving preference to dm-validations). You may
explicitly set this to 'dm-validations' or 'active_model', or false to not
load any of the validations compatibility code. Details of the options:

dm-validations::
  Uses dm-validations. This involves a bit of monkey-patching, but you need to
  use this if you want auto-validations in *any* of your models.
active_model::
  Uses ActiveModel::Validations. Do not use if you require 'dm-validations'
  anywhere in your app (or include it in your Gemfile). Things will break.
  The advantage to this is Active Model's I18n support for error messages, and
  it uses the same validations lib as devise does by default.

=== apply_schema

Tells if dm-devise should apply the devise database schema. You may want to
set this to false if working with a legacy schema.

=== data_mapper_validation_messages

Messages to use as the default DataMapper validation error messages. The
messages are updated from those included in dm-validations to be consistent
with ActiveModel (i.e. with the Devise test expectations) and include
additional messages that devise uses (:not_found, :already_confirmed,
:not_locked, and :expired). If set to false, the messages are left as
defined by the dm-validations gem.

== TODO

* Example app
* Rails templates

== Testing

The dm-devise test rake task runs all of devise's tests using the data_mapper
ORM with both dm-validations and active_model validations (you can specify one
with rake test VALIDATION_LIB=lib_name). In order to run tests, you'll need a
local copy of devise (a gem is fine as long as you specify the path). By default,
dm-devise looks for devise in [path-to-dm-devise]/../devise. You can override
this by setting a DEVISE_PATH env variable. For example:

  rake test DEVISE_PATH=/path/to/devise

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Maintainers

* Jared Morgan (http://github.com/jm81)

== Contributors

http://github.com/jm81/dm-devise/contributors

== Bugs and Feedback

For dm-devise specific issues, please create an issue on GitHub at:

http://github.com/jm81/dm-devise/issues

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010-2011 Jared Morgan. See LICENSE for details.
